authoritarianism, in politics and government, the blind submission to authority and the repression of individual freedom of thought and action. Authoritarian regimes are systems of government that have no established mechanism for the transfer of executive power and do not afford their citizens civil liberties or political rights. Power is concentrated in the hands of a single leader or a ...
Authoritarianism is a political system characterized by the rejection of democracy and political plurality.It involves the use of strong central power to preserve the political status quo, and reductions in the rule of law, separation of powers, and democratic voting. Political scientists have created many typologies describing variations of authoritarian forms of government.
authoritarian regime: 1 n a government that concentrates political power in an authority not responsible to the people Synonyms: authoritarian state Type of: authorities , government , regime the organization that is the governing authority of a political unit
An authoritarian government is a government that holds power and makes policies without the consent of the people that it rules. Authoritarian governments often use their power to suppress descent and exert control over the dissemination of information, including mass media. Authoritarianism is the oldest type of government in human history.
While authoritarian regimes need to learn from democracy to pay more respect to individual freedoms, democracy can also learn a thing or two from authoritarianism about group effort. This article originally appeared in American Affairs Volume V, Number 2 (Summer 2021): 139-53.
On why nationalism and authoritarianism is spreading globally: The first was the excess of globalization, the excess of capitalism, and the creation of exploding inequality happening at the same time that globalization is kind of encroaching on people's national identity or tribal identity. Another trend through line was the post-9/11 ...
Totalitarianism, authoritarianism, and fascism are all forms of government characterized by a strong central rule that attempts to control and direct all aspects of individual life through coercion and repression. All nations have an official type of government as designated in the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency's World Factbook.
In political science, authoritarian regimes, since roughly the mid-twentieth century and along with democratic and totalitarian regimes, have constituted one of three classical types of political rule. Authoritarianism, totalitarianism, and democracy have been referred to as "the classical triad" of systems of governance or political ...
Both forms of government discourage individual freedom of thought and action. Totalitarianism attempts to do this by asserting total control over the lives of its citizens, whereas authoritarianism prefers the blind submission of its citizens to authority. While totalitarian states tend to have a highly developed guiding ideology, authoritarian states usually do not.
"Authoritarian Regimes" published on by null. General Overview and Literature Surveys. Brooker 2009 and Ezrow and Frantz 2011 are two of the relatively few general texts on comparative authoritarianism with an extensive scope of topics and issues to serve as solid introductions to the field. As a bourgeoning area of study, it will eventually result in a greater number of general introductions ...