Democratic regime definition: A democratic country, government, or political system is governed by representatives who... | Meaning, pronunciation, translations and examples
The implementation of a democratic government within a non-democratic state is typically brought about by democratic revolution. Democracy promotion. Banner in Hong Kong asking for democracy, August 2019. Several philosophers and researchers have outlined historical and social factors seen as supporting the evolution of democracy. ...
Democracy is a system of government in which power is vested in the people and exercised by them directly or through freely elected representatives. The term is derived from the Greek 'demokratia,' which was coined in the 5th century BCE to denote the political systems of some Greek city-states, notably Athens.
Published on January 29, 2021. A democracy is a form of government that empowers the people to exercise political control, limits the power of the head of state, provides for the separation of powers between governmental entities, and ensures the protection of natural rights and civil liberties. In practice, democracy takes many different forms.
democratization, process through which a political regime becomes democratic.The explosive spread of democracy around the world beginning in the mid-20th century radically transformed the international political landscape from one in which democracies were the exception to one in which they were the rule. The increased interest in democratization among academics, policy makers, and activists ...
In this chapter I deal with the very core of democracy, the component without which democracy cannot possibly exist—the regime. After reviewing some definitions of democracy (Section 1.1), I discuss themes that result from the definition I propose of a democratic regime or a political democracy, terms that I use indistinctly; the kind of elections it entails (), the political freedoms and ...
What you should know about this data. In this chart, we identify the political systems of countries with the Regimes of the World data by political scientists Anna Lührmann, Marcus Tannenberg, and Staffan Lindberg 4, published by the Varieties of Democracy project. 5; RoW distinguishes four types of political systems: closed autocracies, electoral autocracies, electoral democracies, and ...
The Life and Death of Democracy. New York: W. W. Norton, 2009. A comprehensive and highly accessible historical account of the origins and development of democratic government and ideals. Shapiro, Ian. The State of Democratic Theory. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2003. A critical survey of the state of contemporary democratic theory.
Democracy is a system of government in which laws, policies, leadership, and major undertakings of a state or other polity are directly or indirectly decided by the "people," a group historically constituted by only a minority of the population (e.g., all free adult males in ancient Athens or all sufficiently propertied adult males in 19th-century Britain) but generally understood since ...
democracy: [noun] a government in which the supreme power is vested in the people and exercised by them directly or indirectly through a system of representation usually involving periodically held free elections.