Maximalist rooms are artfully decorated with a "more is more" philosophy, whether this involves displaying an expansive collection, mixing and matching a variety of colors and patterns, or filling a wall with artwork. As designer Chad Graci says, "Maximalism wants bold, bold, BOLD.
1. Add maximalist decor to your living room (Image credit: Jonathan Bond) To make the most of a modest space, the rule of thumb has traditionally been subtle decor. However, we are seeing interior designers throwing out the rule book, creating joyful maximalist schemes in compact rooms.
What is maximalist interior design? "If you've heard of minimalist design, it's the opposite," Hopp says of maximalism. Maximalist interiors often emulate the richer parts of life. It's a...
Maximalism is a gorgeous home decor style that supposes lots of color, pattern, various styles and epochs mixed in one to create a unique space. This is new eclectics that went absolutely wild and many homeowners enjoy that!
Things like color, texture, patterns and shapes come alive in a maximalist room, harmonizing to create a space that feels fun and personal. These details will fight for your attention in the best ways, leaving endless opportunities for the eye to explore each element. Here are some maximalist living rooms we can't stop staring at. 01 of 10
01 of 21 Unique Design Style Annie Schlechter Maximalist design is all about showing off your personality and decorating with what you love. Feel free to mix styles, eras, colors, and patterns to create your own unique mix. Breaking traditional design "rules" is part of what makes maximalism fun. 02 of 21 Maximalist Color Schemes David A. Land
CNN — Since the birth of modernism more than a century ago, the ethos of "less is more" — a motto famously adopted by German architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe — has become synonymous with...
A popular method in maximalist bathroom design is to choose a black-and-white tile for the floor. Checkered, chevron, and geometric patterns are particularly stunning in monochrome. Then, pair the black-and-white flooring with a brightly colored and intricately patterned wallpaper. The juxtaposition looks lovely and perfectly suits maximalist ...
A Brief History Maximalism is by no means a modern trend; maximalists have existed across the globe for centuries. "Wealthy people throughout history have practiced forms of maximalism as ways to showcase their riches," notes Alessandra Wood, vice president of style at interior design service Modsy.
How to Design a Maximalist Living Room, According to Dabito. Cue the color, pattern, and plants! Los Angeles-based Dabito worked as a graphic designer, photographer, and flight attendant for an international airline before launching his interior design blog, Old Brand New, in 2010. His style is maximalist and eclectic, filled with color ...